My Department Stores Customer Service Policy and Procedure
Policy Statement
My Department Stores is committed to providing an exceptional level of service to customers who engage with the business in person, via phone or via chat.
Providing Customer Service in Person
Customers should be greeted professionally by staff within 1 minute of entering the store or coming to the attention of the staff member. Staff should collect information from customers about their needs and expectations and provide them with product and service options.
When providing customer service over the phone, phone calls should be answered within three rings.
Communicating with customers
Staff should use professional communication skills when communicating with customers.
 Use rapport building skills to establish a relationship with the customer Use open, welcoming body language to encourage the customer to share their concerns
 Use active listening skills to ensure the customer feels heard
 Speak clearly and professionally
 Adjust your speaking to meet the customer’s needs
Supporting customers with special needs
Staff should provide provide assistance to support customers with mobility needs when required. Other supports offered by staff can include providing information verbally for customers with vision impairments or providing written information for customers with hearing impairments.
Escalating customer requests or service issues
Staff should request assistance from their supervisor/manager when they cannot respond to the customers needs or when customers have concerns or problems are encountered.
Provide In-Person Customer Service Procedure
The following steps should be completed when providing customer service to customers in the store:
1. Greet the customer within 1 minute of entering the store or coming to the attention of the staff member.
2. Ask questions to encourage the customer to explain their needs
3. Ask questions to clarify or confirm the customer’s needs
4. Ask questions to identify the urgency of the customer’s requests